Implement the changes of the Release Cycle Update RFC (#5)
php/policies: release-process.rst

    8.1     |++++++++++-------------------------D
    8.2     |+++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.3     |     *****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.4     |     |     |     |****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D

Release Timeline
================

The process starts the first Tuesday of July of each year, and nominally runs
for 20 weeks. With 3 alpha releases, 3 beta releases, 4 release candidates,
and a GA (x.0.0) release.

Examples are given for 2024 and PHP 8.4. Releases are tagged on the Tuesday of
each week, with a release before Thursday 24:00 (UTC).

In the examples, `$rd` describes the release day of the first alpha release.

Alpha Releases
--------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Alpha 1
     - * Tag on *First Tuesday of July*: ``$rd - 2`` (Jul 2, 2024)
       * Release before *First Thursday of July*: ``$rd`` (Jul 4, 2024)
   * - Alpha 2
     - ``$rd + 14`` (Jul 18, 2024)
   * - Alpha 3
     - ``$rd + 28`` (Aug 01, 2024)

During the alpha releases:

- New features may be added at will, following the normal RFC procedures.

Beta Releases
-------------

> - Beta 1
> 
> 	- Tag / Feature Freeze: ``$rd + 40`` (Aug 13, 2024)
> 	- Release: ``$rd + 42`` (Aug 15, 2024)
> 
> - Beta 2: ``$rd + 56`` (Aug 29, 2024)
> - Beta 3: ``$rd + 70`` (Sep 12, 2024)

Reviewer: My original suggestion for this got "outdated" by another change, so it was lost. Adding it again:

```suggestion
.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 1
   * - Beta 1
     - * Tag / Feature Freeze: ``$rd + 40`` (Aug 13, 2024)
       * Release: ``$rd + 42`` (Aug 15, 2024)
   * - Beta 2
     - ``$rd + 56`` (Aug 29, 2024)
   * - Beta 3
     - ``$rd + 70`` (Sep 12, 2024)
```

   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - x.y.0 (8.4.0)
     - * Tag: ``$rd + 138`` (Nov 19, 2024)
       * Release: ``$rd + 140`` (Nov 21, 2024)

The GA release MUST be released from the last Release Candidate tag (RC4 or
later). There MUST NOT be any changes between the last Release Candidate tag and
the GA tag (with exception to files such as `NEWS` and other files where the
PHP version number must change for the GA release).

Bug Fix and Security Releases
-----------------------------

After the general availability release:

- Until the end of year 2 (e.g., for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2026):

	- A new release every 4 weeks, synchronised with other release branches.
	- Bug fixes and security fixes.

- Until the end of year 3 (e.g., for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2027):

	- Security fixes, and fixes to address regressions introduced during a
	  normal bug fix release.
	- Updates to ABI incompatible versions of dependent libraries on Windows.
	- Release only when there is a security issue or regression issue to
	  address.
	- Release when an otherwise normal bug fix release for other branches is
	  also made. Exceptions can be made for high risk security issues or high

> 	  profile regressions.

Reviewer: This comment got "outdated" and hidden because of another update, so adding it again...

Does this statement contradict the previous statement to "Release only when there is a security issue or regression issue to address?"

I'm not entirely sure what this statement means. Does this mean, for the 3rd year, the N.N.x version will always have a release when any of the other release branches has a bug fix release? Even if there isn't a security patch? If so, I don't think I understood that from the RFC.

Author: I meant to say that a security bug fix release should be on the same date as the (normal) bug fix releases of the other branches. Like we already currently do.

Reviewer: Got it. How about this change for clarity?

```suggestion
	- Security fix and regression releases SHOULD occur on the same date as bug
	  fix releases for the other branches. Exceptions can be made for high risk
	  security issues or high profile regressions.
```

- Until the end of year 4 (e.g., for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2028):

	- Security fixes **only**.
	- Release only when there is a security issue.
	- Release when an otherwise normal bug fix release for other branches is
	  also made. Exceptions can be made for high risk security issues.

> 	  profile regressions.

Reviewer: Again, I'm not sure what this statement means. It seems to contradict the statement above it: "Release only when there is a security issue."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Security fix releases SHOULD occur on the same date as bug fix releases
	  for the other branches. Exceptions can be made for high risk security
	  issues.
```

    8.2     |+++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.3     |     *****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.4     |     |     |     |****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D

Release Timeline
================

The process starts the first Tuesday of July of each year, and nominally runs
for 20 weeks. With 3 alpha releases, 3 beta releases, 4 release candidates,
and a GA (x.0.0) release.

Examples are given for 2024 and PHP 8.4. Releases are tagged on the Tuesday of
each week, with a release before Thursday 24:00 (UTC).

In the examples, `$rd` describes the release day of the first alpha release.

Alpha Releases
--------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Alpha 1
     - * Tag on *First Tuesday of July*: ``$rd - 2`` (Jul 2, 2024)
       * Release before *First Thursday of July*: ``$rd`` (Jul 4, 2024)
   * - Alpha 2
     - ``$rd + 14`` (Jul 18, 2024)
   * - Alpha 3
     - ``$rd + 28`` (Aug 01, 2024)

During the alpha releases:

- New features may be added at will, following the normal RFC procedures.

Beta Releases
-------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0

>    :stub-columns: 1
>    * - Beta 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Beta 1
```

    **** pre release phase
    ++++ release lifetime with all bug fixes, no feature addition
    ---- release lifetime security fixes only
    G    GA Release
    D    EOL

    Version Time ->
           2023        2024       2025         2026        2027        2028        2029
            |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    8.1     |++++++++++-------------------------D
    8.2     |+++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.3     |     *****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D
    8.4     |     |     |     |****G++++++++++++++++++++++++------------------------D

Release Timeline
================

The process starts the first Tuesday of July of each year, and nominally runs
for 20 weeks. With 3 alpha releases, 3 beta releases, 4 release candidates,
and a GA (x.0.0) release.

> Examples are given for 2024 and PHP 8.4. Releases are tagged on the Monday of

Reviewer 2: Our [existing release guidelines](https://github.com/php/php-src/blob/master/docs/release-process.md#general-notes-and-tips) are to package/tag "two days before a release" and explicitly call out Tuesday. Do we want to change _that_ guidance to be in alignment with "the Monday of each week" or revisit this callout instead?

Author: No. I got this one wrong. And that explains why I asked for reviews :-D.

each week, with a release before Thursday 24:00 (UTC).

`$rd` describes the release day of the first alpha release.

Alpha Releases
--------------

- Alpha 1

	- Tag on *First Tuesday of July*: ``$rd - 2`` (Jul 2, 2024)
	- Release before *First Thursday of July*: ``$rd`` (Jul 4, 2024)

- Alpha 2: ``$rd + 14`` (Jul 18, 2024)
- Alpha 3: ``$rd + 28`` (Aug 01, 2024)

During the alpha releases:

- New features may be added at will, following the normal RFC procedures.

Beta Releases
-------------

- Beta 1

	- Tag / Feature Freeze: ``$rd + 40`` (Aug 13, 2024)

> 	- Release: ``rd + 42`` (Aug 15, 2024)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	- Release: ``$rd + 42`` (Aug 15, 2024)
```

- Beta 2: ``$rd + 56`` (Aug 29, 2024)
- Beta 3: ``$rd + 70`` (Sep 12, 2024)

At feature freeze:

- All features requiring an RFC must have passed by the voting mechanism, and
  *should* have been merged.

After feature freeze, with blessing of the release managers:

> - Merging RFC requiring features is still allowed.

Author: Merging "Features that do require an RFC" are still allowed. (To match what it says in the line below)

> - Merging RFC requiring features is still allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Merging features that do require an RFC is still allowed.
```

> - Features that do not require an RFC are still allowed.

Author: I thought we had, but I can not find it :-/.

later) and GA.

Bug Fix and Security Releases
-----------------------------

After general availability release:

- Until end of year 2 (for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2026):

	- A new release every 4 weeks, synchronised with other release branches.
	- Bug fixes and security fixes.

- Until end of year 3 (for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2027):

	- Security fixes, and fixes to address regressions introduced during a
	  normal bug fix release.
	- Updates to ABI incompatible versions of dependent libraries on Windows.
	- Release only when there is a security issue or regression issue to
	  address
	- Release when a otherwise normal bug fix release for other branches is
	  also made. Exceptions can be made for high risk security issues or high
	  profile regressions.

- Until end of year 4 (for PHP 8.4: until Dec 31, 2028):

	- Security fixes **only**
	- Release only when there is a security issue.
	- Release when a otherwise normal bug fix release for other branches is
	  also made. Exceptions can be made for high risk security issues.
	  profile regressions.
	- Updates to ABI incompatible versions of dependent libraries on Windows
	  are **not** done.

> *End of year here means:* The end of the year following the original planned release
> date of a GA release.

Reviewer: As written, this statement indicates that "end of year" always means the end of the year following the GA release (i.e., if the GA release is in November of 2024, then the end of year is *always* December 31, 2024). I don't think that's what's intended, though.

```suggestion
*"End of year" means:* The end of the calendar year, i.e., Dec 31 at 23:59:59 UTC. The numbered years in the examples (e.g., "end of year 2") indicate the number of calendar years following the GA release. For example, if the GA release for PHP 8.4 occurs on Nov 21, 2024, then "end of year 2" is Dec 31, 2026 23:59:59 UTC.
```

Author: What I was trying to capture is that if the release would have slipped to January 5, 2025, the "end of year two" would be December 31, 2026, not **December 31, 2027**. So your phrasing doesn't help this. Mine has the "original planned release date" wording in it, and although perhaps not clear *enough*, it is what I meant to say. Yours does not. Try again? (Pretty please)

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
*"End of year" means:* The end of the calendar year, i.e., Dec 31 at 24:00 UTC. The numbered years in the examples (e.g., "end of year 2") indicate the number of calendar years following the *original planned GA release date*. For example, if the planned GA release date for PHP 8.4 is Nov 21, 2024, then "end of year 2" is Dec 31, 2026, 24:00 UTC, even if the actual release date slips to Jan 9, 2025.
```

the bug tracker)

Release managers selection
==========================

About three months prior to the scheduled release of the first alpha release

> of the next minor or major version (around March 1st or shortly thereafter),

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
of the next minor or major version (around April 1st or shortly thereafter),
```

We've moved Alpha 1 to a month later,
I think the correct thing to do would be to either take April 1st,
as the start date of the volunteer call, or change that to 4 months before the Alpha 1
